Java Nested and Inner Class:-'

In Java, you can define a class within another class. Such class is known as nested class.
 For example,

class OuterClass {
    // ...
    class NestedClass {
        // ...
    }
}

There are two types of nested classes you can create in Java.

1. Non-static nested class (inner class)
2. Static nested class

1. Non-Static Nested Class (Inner Class):-
A non-static nested class is a class within another class. It has access to members of the enclosing class (outer class). It is commonly known as inner class.

Since the inner class exists within the outer class, you must instantiate the outer class first, in order to instantiate the inner class.

2. Static Nested Class:-
In Java, we can also define a static class inside another class. Such class is known as static nested class. Static nested classes are not called static inner classes.

Unlike inner class, a static nested class cannot access the member variables of the outer class. 
It is because the static nested class doesn't require you to create an instance of the outer class.

OuterClass.NestedClass obj = new OuterClass.NestedClass();
Here, we are creating an object of the static nested class by simply using the class name of the outer class. Hence, 
the outer class cannot be referenced using OuterClass.this.

Key Points to Remember:-

Java treats the inner class as a regular member of a class. They are just like methods and variables declared inside a class.

Since inner classes are members of the outer class, you can apply any access modifiers like private, protected to your inner class which is not possible in normal classes.

Since the nested class is a member of its enclosing outer class, you can use the dot (.) notation to access the nested class and its members.

Using the nested class will make your code more readable and provide better encapsulation.

Non-static nested classes (inner classes) have access to other members of the outer/enclosing class, even if they are declared private.

Java Nested Static Class:- 

we can have a class inside another class in Java. Such classes are known as nested classes. In Java, nested classes are of two types:

1. Nested non-static class (Inner class)

2. Nested static class.

We have already discussed inner classes in the previous tutorial. Visit Java Nested Class if you want to learn about inner classes.

1. Java Nested Static Class
We use the keyword static to make our nested class static.

Note: In Java, only nested classes are allowed to be static.

Like regular classes, static nested classes can include both static and non-static fields and methods.
 For example,

Class Animal {
   static class Mammal {
      // static and non-static members of Mammal
   }
   // members of Animal
} 

Static nested classes are associated with the outer class.

To access the static nested class, we don’t need objects of the outer class.

