Java Reflection:- 

In Java, reflection allows us to inspect and manipulate classes, interfaces, constructors, 

methods, and fields at run time.

There is a class in Java named Class that keeps all the information about objects and classes 

at runtime. The object of Class can be used to perform reflection.

Reflection of Java Classes
In order to reflect a Java class, we first need to create an object of Class.

And, using the object we can call various methods to get information about methods, fields, 

and constructors present in a class.

There exists three ways to create objects of Class:

1. Using forName() method

class Dog {...}

// create object of Class
// to reflect the Dog class
Class a = Class.forName("Dog");
Here, the forName() method takes the name of the class to be reflected as its argument.

2. Using getClass() method

// create an object of Dog class
Dog d1 = new Dog();

// create an object of Class
// to reflect Dog
Class b = d1.getClass();
Here, we are using the object of the Dog class to create an object of Class.

3. Using .class extension

// create an object of Class
// to reflect the Dog class
Class c = Dog.class;
Now that we know how we can create objects of the Class. We can use this object to get 

information about the corresponding class at runtime.

Reflecting Fields, Methods, and Constructors
The package java.lang.reflect provides classes that can be used for manipulating class 

members. For example,

Method class - provides information about methods in a class
Field class - provides information about fields in a class
Constructor class - provides information about constructors in a class

1. Reflection of Java Methods
The Method class provides various methods that can be used to get information about the 

methods present in a class.

2. Reflection of Java Fields
Like methods, we can also inspect and modify different fields of a class using the methods of 

the Field class.

3. Reflection of Java Constructor
We can also inspect different constructors of a class using various methods provided by the 

Constructor class. 
